Israel is continuing to bombard Targets
in southern Gaza this comes after the
United States blocked the un's bid for a
ceasefire in its war against Hamas who
are considered a terrorist group by
numerous countries according to the
Hamas run Health Ministry more than
177,000 people have been killed in two
months of Israel's military campaign the
UN says the humanitarian support system
in Gaza is at risk of total
collapse more than two months since
hamas's terrorist attack and the
beginning of Israel's military offensive
in Gaza scenes like these keep
emerging Medics rushing injured to the
hospitals among them many children
according to the Hamas ran Health
Ministry the latest Israeli air strikes
in the southern city of Khan yunas have
killed
dozens further south in Rafa targets are
also being hit many led to the South
earlier in the war when Israel told them
to leave Northern
Gaza we were first displaced from Gaza
City to kanun and later to Rafa where
should we go now children and women were
sleeping peacefully a 52-year-old Woman
Who Wasn't carrying a weapon and a
5-year-old child were they launching
rockets in
Israel the strikes intensify AS Global
calls for a ceasefire are intensifying
too in New York on Friday the United
States vetoed a security Council
resolution drafted by the United Arab
Emirates that called for a humanitarian
ceasefire in
Gaza as long as Hamas clings to its
ideology of Destruction any ceasefire is
at best temporary and is certainly not
peace and any ceasefire that leaves
Hamas in control of Gaza would deny
Palestinian civilians the chance to
build something better for themselves
but many Palestinians fail to understand
this
argument America is the one sending
weapons these weapons have been
manufactured in America and in Western
countries they support Israel in killing
youth children women and the
elderly Allah is our savior and will
take care of us when America vetoed the
ceasefire at the UN they reconfirmed
their position against the people who
are dying under shelling all day and all
night with American weapons
the UN says the humanitarian support
system in Gaza risks total
collapse and most cousins are unable to
flee the territory leaving them no
option but to seek Refuge under heavy
isra
fire our correspondent Rebecca rers
joins us from Jerusalem hello Rebecca
what more can you tell us about the
ongoing fighting in
Gaza well the the fighting has been
ongoing right through even this un
Security Council vote for uh a ceasefire
we've been seeing a continuous ongoing
bombardment of the South as well as a
continued push of ground troops uh in
further into the center of that southern
city of Han yunas we're also seeing a
continued bombardment and fighting uh
quite intense fighting in the northern
part of the strip as well we know that
civilians uh are being told to evacuate
even further south uh that has been
happening um day in day out now for the
last several days moving uh from areas
in that Han unus area down towards Rafa
we know that they're finding it
increasingly difficult to find places to
go many people saying that they've been
displaced now several times and they're
not only tired but they're scared and
they just have have nowhere to run now
the IDF uh says that Hamas have been
firing from some of the so-called safe
areas though we know from the UN and
other International Aid groups that
there really is no safe area for
civilians in the Gaza Strip but the idea
of claiming that in some safe areas as
they deem them uh that fire rocket fire
has been coming from Hamas and that
they've been suffering attacks from
those areas uh we're not able to verify
those claims though we do know that
rocket fire has been coming uh into the
southern part of Israel today we've also
of course Eddie been seeing the the
cross border incursions happening in the
North of Israel with the border with
Lebanon we know that Hezbollah have been
also continuing to fire into Northern
Israel and Israel retaliating it's
unfortunately uh day in day out we're
hearing similar reports and things uh of
course predominantly for civilians in
Gaza becoming dire and and more dire by
the day right and world leaders and Aid
groups have criticized the US veto on a
Gaza TRS resolution at the UN what is
the latest there
yeah there's been uh a lot of criticism
toward that vote from the that veto from
the US Eddie pretty much across the
board we hearing from International
actors uh a top Iranian Diplomat for
example has told the United Nations
Secretary General Antonio GES that
there's a huge risk of a quote
uncontrollable explosion in the region
uh following that veto now that's
something that Iran have been
threatening since the beginning of this
war it's not something that seen them
follow through on or we've not seen
their other actors in the region hezb
for example really following through on
but it is something that you know
everybody including the US other
International actors and the civilians
of course are very worried about uh
we've been hearing from turkey's foreign
minister who said that the US really now
stands alone when it comes to this issu
there's some very strong words there
when it comes to Aid and rights
organizations we've heard from Human
Rights Watch they've said that the US
risks complicity war crimes by
continuing to support Israel both
militarily and diplomatically and medic
the the aid group um Doctors Without
Borders they've been saying that the
security Council in action makes them
complicit in the ongoing Slaughter uh
that's going on in Gaza as they say so
some really really negative responses to
that un veto pretty much the only uh
positive response has come from Israel
who unsurprisingly have thanked the US
for their ongoing continuing support
right good views Rebecca Rees in
Jerusalem thank
you I'm now joined by Christian Lind
meire spokesperson for the World Health
Organization in Geneva hello and welcome
sir now with a ceasefire out of the
question for now and very little Aid
reaching the strip how much worse can
the situation
get thanks for having me Eddie yeah this
is really the question um you you our
teams on the ground around and everybody
outside always is reporting they they
don't think it can get worse uh ever and
then the next day is worse again that's
exactly what they keep saying uh from
the from children and people begging for
water uh because the water supply is
absolutely sub minimal uh the the water
system has been shut off let's not
forget that two months ago already so
it's not just bombing and shelling it's
the water system has been shut off the
electricity system has been shut off uh
so nothing works anymore without uh
without fuel the water supply is uh
minimal because the uh the normal water
basin underneath Gaza is a salty water
which needs to be desalinated and that
can't happen without fuel or electricity
children or people who normally need at
least three liters of drinking water a
day and the humanitarian settings we
normally calculate up to seven liters
per person a day with all the needs
including washing uh do now have one to
two lers a day and as we all know one to
2 L if it was only drinking water is not
enough people are cutting down telephone
poles uh we get these reports because
they need a little the last piece of
wood and try to make any any any stove
or keep it warm uh the hospitals are
completely those which are actually
still functioning or partially
functioning are are described as battle
zones meaning people lying on the floor
bleeding on the floor being operated
wherever they can seeking shelter in the
same spaces um the Seas breaks
everything is going uh to Sham and it's
not just that is it the World Health
Organization your outfit has repeatedly
voiced its concerns about a rise in
outbreaks of infectious diseases in Gaza
what is being done to prevent
that so normally there's a good
surveillance system in Gaza uh through
the Ministry of Health and the the red
Quest and the various clinics and health
facilities but that surveillance system
has broken down um now we have seen an
extreme increase in watery diarrhea
already chera to name it not yet because
cholera is a specific bacteria but acute
watery diarrhea is exactly the same
outcome can have exactly the same
consequences so you have a an extremely
malnourished weak population children
under five we have more than 10,000 of
cases um in in of this acute watery
diarrhea already in children we have
caus skin rashes and lice um but also
reports of hepatitis hepatitis A
Hepatitis E although here is one of the
problems that the laboratory is also not
functioning anymore so any samples of
anything would have to be ported outside
to uh to Egypt in order to get tested
and then the respective medicine to be
brought in uh any any little disease can
be cured by antibiotics or by a good
surveillance system by isolating people
but in the situation right now with
people in hundreds of thousands
Sheltering and pressed together the
smallest zones being injured being uh
with diseases um some has said if people
don't die through the bombing now they
will desire die from the
diseases yeah you describe a very dire
situation on the ground tell me what do
you expect from the International
Community at this
point look there are there are those who
hold the power in the on the ground and
that's specifically of course Israel as
also the occupying power with
specific um resp responsibilities
towards the Gaza Strip um they have the
power to stop this and all all well
understood that they after hammas and
those who committed these atrocious and
horrendous crimes on 7 October uh uh and
they still keep hostages which also need
to be released immediately and
unconditionally but going after the
terrorist organization and going after
the whole population without as it looks
like now any discrimination anymore um
that is not absolutely not acceptable it
needs to stop it needs to stop now again
not only cutting people off from water
and food because there's no independent
production of this in Gaza also not
letting enough supplies come in um this
is this is a crime against
humanity Christian linm spokesperson for
the World Health Organization in Geneva
thank
you thank you now Marina is a
military analyst and research fellow
with King's College London's War studies
department and joins us now
from Munich Marina uh this battle for
Han Unis has become the new focus of the
war it seems why is it so important to
take for the
IDF good evening well it is believed to
be a stronghold for Hamas therefore IDF
is concentrating its operation on Kan
Yunis and it is also believed that there
is an extensive network of tunnels
underneath the city and so now we're
seeing that the north has more or less
been clear this and and now IDF is
proceeding with the South and the idea
is then to expand these areas so to push
out Hamas as much as they can probably
towards the middle of the Gaza Strip to
Central Gaza and so um the idea here is
to eliminate as many Hamas as possible
with a focus on hamas's
commanders now KH Unis is also packed
with people that fled from the north of
the Gaza a strip how is Israel trying to
avoid Civ civilian casualties
now well it is very difficult because um
the IDF on the one hand has created this
grid system so essentially they're
warning civilians um to leave those
areas where they expect heavy fighting
to take place in advance using U media
social media um TV messages leaflets and
all that um however ever the problem is
that even the ADF admits that no area is
really safe in Gaza so what we're seeing
is essentially um civilians fleeing to
Rafa and that's where the the
humanitarian agencies cannot provide the
necessary aid for so many people fleeing
there and other areas are essentially
also quite dangerous for the civilians
so that's a problem for the IDF where do
you get the civilians on the one hand
and on the other hand there is a fears
that Hamas will leave to those secure
areas the so-called secure areas
together with the
civilians now there are reports of
renewed fighting on Israel's northern
border with Lebanon as well How likely
is an escalation
there that is correct and um at the very
beginning o of this conflict hollah has
stated that it would consider joining
the fight when it sees that Hamas cannot
cope with the IDF we don't know right
now um to what extent Hezbollah is ready
to join and certainly does have the
military capabilities and to what extent
Iran would approve of such actions
because that would risk um losing a lot
of hezbollah's capabilities if the war
spills over so right now we're seeing
distractions there on the northern
border from hezbollah's side but also
other groups in the region such as the
yemeni hoodis
have uh pledged to Target Israeli or any
ships in the Red Sea that go to Israel
because there is not enough humanitarian
Aid being delivered to the Gaza Strip
and we also have groups like Al-Qaeda
pledging to kill Americans Brits and
Israel is all across the world so it
seems like all of these violent non
non-state actors are throwing their
support um behind Hamas even if they
ideolog ideologically don't always agree
with a group Marine amiral there thank
you very
much